the impact of the Israeli bombardment of
Gaza is far-reaching tearing families
apart it's created a flood of children
who've been orphaned according to the
euromed Human Rights group more than
24,000 children have lost their parents
gaza's health Ministry says at least
10,000 children have died in the strip
since October the 7th Hamza Muhammad
reports anas and air only have each
other they parents were killed in an
Israeli strike on their home inat
refugee camp in central
Gaza to protect his six-year-old brother
anas has not told what happened to their
mom and
dad my brother doesn't know till now
that he's lost all of his family except
me I don't know how to tell him I'm
afraid that if I tell him it will have a
psychological
impact the strike did not just kill
their parents it left them with
life-changing
injuries I was with my family at home I
went to bring something from the kitchen
suddenly everything fell down and I was
on fire the fire was eating
me air loved playing outside with his
friends football their favorite
spot my leg is amputated what can I do
I want to walk I want to run I want to
play I want to see my mother I want
clothes to wear I want to stand up I
want to walk alone on my own I can't sit
down I want to be able to sit down I
can't sleep I stay awake all the
time as he remains in shock anas is
wondering what he did to deserve this
what did I do to the Israelis I did
nothing to them I did not carry a gun
against them I did nothing wrong to the
Israelis for now anas and air are alone
but alive but as Israel intensifies its
bombardments in Gaza that is not
guaranteed Hamza Muhammad Al
jaaz Al jazer senior political analyst
Maran bashara is with us good to have
you with us in the studio the scenes of
suffering prompted 36 un experts on
November the 16th to talk about a
genocide in the making in Gaza
right you know this um these
heart-wrenching tragic stories cut
through all the legal terminology and
the military
jargon uh just to basically go to the
heart of the the matter as to what just
happened the past 3 4 months in Gaza I
think these children tell it better than
any judge any journalist or any academic
at the end of the day this is what it's
all about it's about children uh orphans
widows and parents losing their children
which is probably the worst of it
all and it is uh uh you know uh genocide
unring from our eyes not just because of
the massive suffering the destruction
the collective punishment but it's also
because behind it um there is a country
determined to inflict that much
suffering on the people of Gaza and
talking about it now we understand from
the statement by the international court
of justice they're going to release
their provisional ruling on Friday this
is a a pivotal moment right it is
absolutely I think um at least in terms
of the court of public
opinion uh because as we speak uh this
uh continue to accumulate these these
tragic stories of the people in Gaza
continue to accumulate we're going to
see more and more of this not because of
what happened yesterday because of what
happened the last three months now we're
talking about diseases we're talking
about a completely broken Health
infrastructure Civic infrastructure San
a and so on so forth and let's not
forget starvation right so this is all
happening Al together while the bombing
as we reported earlier is increasing in
the southern part of Gaza the north is
destroyed and now Israel is destroying
uh the southern part but while we
speaking the Israelis as we understand
today from AEL Aviv uh University poll
listen to this this is really
incredulous 94% of his Israeli Jews
think Israel used
appropriate use of
force almost 95% of Israeli Jews think
this destruction this killing this
suffering is
Justified that ends justify the
means that whatever happened whatever
you see in Gaza whatever will be
happening in as far as the majority of
the Israeli uh public opinion it's just
so it's not just the Prime Minister it's
not just the president it's not just the
defense minister and the cabinet
ministers and parliamentarians and
journalists and so on so forth in Israel
in fact there's a public opinion in
Israel that supports the war believe it
or not as we watch these images a
majority of Israelis today
51% want to
resettle
illegally the Gaza Strip so the judges
of the icj the judges of the the
international uh court of justice should
be watching as what we watch should be
seeing what we're reporting should be
probably conscious of the unraveling and
the accumulating tragedy of Gaza as it
happens today and they should probably
be listening just one last point to what
the UN Secretary General because in the
end of the day the icj is a United
Nations court and the United Nations
Secretary General is
saying that you can't get the
humanitarian to Gaza unless you have a
ceasefire will it make a difference if
the
icj goes the direction many expect it
will and and calls for emergency
measures to prevent a genocide in
Gaza it all depends if it chooses the
first one and this is the one I was just
provoking or invoking when I was
mentioned the UN Secretary General stop
the fighting that's the first of the
eight provisional measures it is a must
that the icj rules that fighting must
stop today right and then it follows
from that the other Provisions such as
the humanitarian Aid maintaining the
records of the decision-making process
behind what we see happening especially
by the Israelis and so on so forth now
once this decide especially on the first
provision and if it does and hopefully
it does then this is going to have to go
to the United Nations General Assembly
and Security Council more importantly
it's there at the United Nations
security Council where this could become
actionable or not my fear is my
understand we expect we expect a veto to
be used by the US by the United States
and that will be the most fortunate of
all fortunate uh measures taken by the
Americans because will have a lot of
moral Authority right even though it's a
provisional ruling it's not a final
ruling it will carry a lot of moral
weight around the world right there is
no higher moral weight than the icg on
this question
once it rules on any number of the
measures it's basically implicitly
saying there is a grave violation of
human rights in that part of the world
and if it does say the first one you
must stop the fighting then the United
States and the UK and Germany those
Western powers that unconditionally
support Israel Finance Israel and arm
Israel's war on Gaza probably would and
should be ashamed of themselves but it
will split not only
you know the the question of Gaza and
Israel it will split the world because I
think a good number of the so-called
Global South is waiting and witnessing
that at last maybe something that is
associated with the West will also be
put on trial and that something got to
give in terms of stopping the war in
Gaza Maran always was good to talk to
you thanks for coming
in